# Ream Meeting #33 Recap

## Overview

The team held a productive call focusing on preparation for the upcoming PQ devnet milestone at the end of August. Key discussions centered around finalizing lean specs and determining Ream's position on using 3SF versus signature-only approaches for the first interop. The team reached consensus to advocate for 3SF implementation in the first devnet, given that both Ream and Zeam have existing implementations while PQ signatures may not be ready in time. The team also addressed concerns about issue assignment practices to improve collaboration.

## Development Progress

### Lean Specs and Container Implementation

- **Container Specs Definition**: Unnawut worked on defining state, block, vote, and other container specifications, spending significant time resolving Python setup compatibility issues across different Ethereum spec repositories
- **3SF Integration**: Jun's 3SF implementation received review and is progressing well, with the team planning to prioritize this for the first devnet
- **Node Initialization**: Jun focused on single-node functionality with plans to add proper config file support and validator list management

### Networking and P2P Layer

- **Static Peer Connections**: Varun implemented static PR connections for the lean node and opened a PR currently under review
- **RPC Implementation**: Varun's RPC crate for the lean node is nearly ready with a draft expected soon
- **Gossip P2P**: Kayden initialized lean P2P and implemented initial gossip P2P code for blocks and votes, currently working on the second half of the implementation
- **Testing Concerns**: Jun raised concerns about insufficient testing coverage, with Varun agreeing to add minimal viable tests for peer connections

### Performance and Refactoring

- **Hashing Scheme**: Varun fixed and merged the faster hashing scheme for Ream, with zkVM flag support for slower but zkVM-compatible hashing
- **Service Refactoring**: Shariq completed refactoring of intervals in Validator and LeanChain services, with CI fixes pending

## Next Steps

- **Unnawut**: Follow up with other teams on missing specs, draft GossipSub specs (likely copy-paste from Beacon specs), and finalize remaining PQ devnet requirements
- **Varun**: Complete static peer connections and RPC crate PRs, then pick up additional PQ devnet issues
- **Jun**: Remove hacky code from current implementation, add command-line config file support, and implement validator list YAML file functionality
- **Kayden**: Complete the second half of gossip P2P implementation and continue with assigned lean node tasks
- **Shariq**: Investigate signature implementation status with Partha and work on empty block and vote signing functionality
