# Ream Meeting #36 Recap

## Overview

The team convened for their weekly development sync. Key highlights included progress on devnet0 preparations, post-quantum cryptography integration, and zkVM implementations. The team discussed technical challenges around key generation, database integration needs, and upcoming consensus calls. Several PRs are in review stages, and the visualizer app development is progressing well.

## Development Progress

### Consensus and Specifications
- **Mock signature types**: Unnawut completed work on mock signature types for devnet0 and reviewed lean specs from the Zeam team
- **Spec integration**: Ongoing work to apply consensus changes back into the Ream repo and convert markdown specs to Python specs for test vector generation

### Infrastructure and DevOps
- **CI workflow**: Kayden implemented new CI workflow and added flag support for network identity reuse
- **Local devnet setup**: Development of docker compose file for lean local devnet, with consideration of switching to Kurtosis
- **RPC improvements**: Varun shipped pure RPC implementation and conducted code reviews

### Post-Quantum Cryptography
- **Account manager**: Partha commenced work on standalone account manager using the ready PQ crate, addressing Zeam team comments on EIP changes
- **Key generation**: Discussion on key pair creation for different message types (block proposals, attestations) with automatic storage for reuse
- **Public key representation**: Technical discussion on representing large post-quantum public keys, potentially using Poseidon2 hash with 0x prefix

### Visualization and Monitoring
- **Visualizer app**: Jun progressed on full-stack web app with Golang backend and Vite frontend for PQ devnet monitoring
- **API endpoints**: Open PR for adding block fetching endpoints to support the visualizer

### zkVM Research and Implementation
- **Multi-platform benchmarking**: Utsav updated SP1 repo, working on Risc Zero, SP1, Jolt, and Pico comparisons
- **Performance optimization**: SP1 operations taking 13 seconds vs over a minute for Pico, with team addressing optimization requests
- **OpenVM integration**: Dimitris working on attestation example transformation with CLI input support, addressing guest-host output reading issues

### Network and Protocol
- **Gossip improvements**: Shariq implemented cache time updates for GossipSub based on Lean spec changes
- **Beacon API reviews**: Taking over EPF fellows' Beacon API implementation reviews to accelerate progress

## Next Steps

- **Unnawut**: Complete leanspecs changes and markdown to Python spec conversion before two-week absence
- **Jun**: Open GitHub issue for network key generation CLI tool discussion and continue visualizer development
- **Kayden**: Review zkVM-related PRs and finalize devnet setup approach
- **Partha**: Submit account manager PR with incremental improvements and follow up with Antonio on EIP review via Ladislaus
- **Varun**: Continue RPC work and code reviews
- **Shariq**: Complete Beacon API PR reviews and continue GossipSub improvements
- **Utsav**: Share weekly updates in Telegram, work on sanity blocks and fork choice updates, resolve SP1 memory issues
- **Dimitris**: Resolve guest-host output reading issues and add automation scripts
- **Jun**: Open database integration issue for lean node and coordinate Friday's lean consensus call
- **Ladislaus**: Follow up with Antonio on EIP review and coordinate Friday's Multi-Sig call
