# Ream Meeting #38 Recap

## Overview

The weekly sync meeting included updates on key infrastructure components and coordination efforts. Several team members provided progress reports on database integration, Docker compose setup, and zkVM work, while also discussing standardization efforts for metrics across clients. The meeting highlighted ongoing work toward devnet0 preparation and cross-client collaboration initiatives.

## Development Progress

### Infrastructure & Devnet Setup

- **Docker Compose Integration**: Jun completed basic setup with shell script and Docker compose for devnet, though network connection issues between the four nodes need resolution
- **Database Integration**: Varun nearly completed DB integration work to address memory issues when slots exceed 2,000-3,000, with draft PR coming soon
- **Local Devnet**: Jun created repository on ReamLabs with simple devnet setup tools and is working on corresponding PR

### Application Development

- **Lean View App**: Jun demonstrated basic visualization app for upcoming peak definites, with plans for additional features
- **Hash-Sig Modularity**: Shariq working on making Hash-Sig modular but progress slowed due to illness

### Research & zkVM Work

- **zkVM Transition**: Dimitris explored running 3sf mini inside zkVM instead of beacon chain examples, but encountered challenges getting instruction counts from OpenVM guest code
- **Multi-zkVM Framework**: Discussion of creating modular framework to run same code across 5-6 different zkVMs for comprehensive metrics

### Key Management

- **Keystore Implementation**: Partha addressed PR comments and is waiting for review from Jun and Kolby, with plans for incremental PRs for additional EIP features

### Metrics Standardization

- **Cross-Client Metrics**: Ladislaus raised topic of standardizing metrics endpoints across clients early, with Katya confirming ongoing work with Will and Sunnyside Labs on Lean metrics standardization

## Next Steps

- **Jun**: Review Partha's keystore PR, open Docker compose PR after call, finalize devnet network connection issues
- **Varun**: Clean up DB integration code and open draft PR from hotel
- **Shariq**: Create PR for Hash-Sig modularity work this week
- **Partha**: Address remaining EIP comments after keystore PR merge
- **Dimitris**: Explore other zkVMs (SP1, etc.) for better statistics support and instruction counting
- **with**: Check with Will about metrics repo status and share PR with team by tomorrow
- **Ladislaus**: Coordinate with team on metrics standardization prioritization for devnet0
