# Ream Meeting #40 Recap

## Overview

This week's meeting was smaller than usual with several team members traveling or away from keyboard. The team is in the final phase of devnet0 preparation, with plans to complete it by next week within the Interop meetings in Cambridge. Key discussions centered around metrics implementation for devnet0, database optimizations, and consensus protocol research. Katya joined to present initial metrics proposals and provided feedback on the current Ream implementation.

## Development Progress

### Devnet Specs

- **Justification Size Fix**: Unnawut completed a PR to align justification size with the Lean spec and participated in spec discussions across Telegram groups

### zkVM

- **Consensus Research**: Dimistris finished reading papers on SSZ and SSF to understand consensus mechanics, with particular focus on FFG justification
- **zkVM Project Planning**: Dimistris wrote a personal experience document on using OpenVM and made progress on deciding next steps for the EPF project

### Database and Performance

- **Database Optimization**: Varun successfully merged the database PR, eliminating memory hogging issues in the Lean process
- **Lean State RPC**: Varun completed work on the lean state RPC with Jun's review, expecting to merge within hours
- **Known Votes Pruning**: One of Jun's merged PRs appears to have resolved the known votes table pruning issue for Lean, pending confirmation

### Spec Tests

- **Spec Tests Migration**: Shariq worked on porting spec tests from the Lean spec to Rust for integration into Ream's testing infrastructure

### Metrics Implementation

- **Beacon Metrics Documentation**: Shariq created a detailed document outlining current Ream metrics and proposed metrics for pqdevnet0, presented during the PQ Interop call
- **devnet0 Metrics PR**: Katya created [an initial draft PR for devnet0 metrics](https://github.com/leanEthereum/leanMetrics/pull/4) based on the devnet0 specs description, focusing on simple comparisons like validator counts
- **Metrics Discussion**: Identified that the head slot metric in Ream is currently implemented in state transition but should be in fork choice updates
- **Naming Conventions**: Discussed metrics naming conventions, with Katya recommending "lean" prefix for spec metrics and client name prefix for client-specific metrics

## Next Steps

- **Unnawut**: Complete documentation work, target to finalize devnet0 with Zeam and others within next week, plan for Cambridge Interop meetings
- **Shariq**: Implement proposed metrics into the Ream client, review Katya's metrics PRs, coordinate metrics meeting with interested parties
- **Varun**: Review Jun's morning feedback on lean state RPC and merge the PR, confirm resolution of known votes pruning issue with Jun, participate in metrics discussion
- **Dimistris**: Continue with zkVM project planning based on morning discussions
- **Katya**: Share metrics PR in Discord, build dashboard for devnet0 metrics, create discussion thread in PQ interop Discord channel, coordinate metrics review meeting
