# Ream Meeting #56 Recap

## Overview

The team gathered for their 56th meeting to share development updates and prepare for upcoming study group presentations. The session focused on client development progress, debugging efforts for the second devnet, and preparations for educational content. The meeting also covered planning for an upcoming presentation on zkVM field arithmetic, with discussions about structuring content to provide proper context before diving into technical specifics.

## Development Progress

### Client Development & DevNet

- **Shariq**: Fixed minor syncing issues in the client and successfully ran it for approximately 30 minutes; shared progress on Twitter
- **Kayden**: Submitted a PR to fix justification routes; helped debug devnet-2 issues between Qlean and Zeam; updated finalized versions multiple times; completed the second half of Beacon chain work for the Fulu spec

### Conference & Community Engagement

- **Kayden**: Submitted a talk proposal for Cannes about the journey of Lean Ethereum and Ream Labs as a client; prepared slides for what would be his first conference talk

### Study Group Preparation

- **Dimitris**: Prepared content on Koala Bear field arithmetic for the study group; discussed the approach to presenting prime fields and their characteristics
- **Unnawut**: Planned to provide a high-level overview presentation of leanMultisig to establish context before diving into specific topics

### Network Protocol Work

- **Derek**: Gained solid understanding of P2P area response chunk limits; prepared to begin implementation work pending clarification on semantics

## Next Steps

- **Shariq**: Continue monitoring and fixing client syncing issues
- **Kayden**: Await conference talk acceptance; continue devnet-2 debugging support
- **Dimitris**: Coordinate with Unnawut on study group presentation approach; review recorded session later
- **Unnawut**: Deliver overview presentation on leanMultisig stack to provide context for upcoming sessions
- **Derek**: Reach out on the issue for clarification on semantics before starting implementation
